Add an example of how to use the LocalAI bundle (#4)
kairos-io/kairos-docs: content/en/docs/Examples/localai.md

---
title: "LocalAI"
linkTitle: "LocalAI"
weight: 4
description: > 
    This section describe examples on how to deploy Kairos with k3s and LocalAI
---

{{% alert title="Warning" %}}

> This tutorial will download an AI model which is around 4Gib

Reviewer: I'll add a note that performance are poors on VMs, just bare metal with modern HW.

{{% /alert %}}

Welcome to the guide on using LocalAI with Kairos and K3s on your nodes!

But first, what is [LocalAI](https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI)?

LocalAI is a self-hosted, community-driven simple local OpenAI-compatible API written in go. Can be used as a drop-in replacement for OpenAI, running on CPU with consumer-grade hardware. Supports ggml compatible models, for instance: LLaMA, alpaca, gpt4all, vicuna, koala, gpt4all-j, cerebras.

> This means that you can have the power of an AI model in your Edge-Kubernetes cluster, and it can all be easily done thanks to Kairos!

Reviewer: I would also mention that we use gpt4all models, and make it clear the component sitting behind the scene here:
- LocalAI
- GPT4ALL
- Kairos (Kubernetes)

> To get started, you'll need to use the [provider-kairos](https://github.com/kairos-io/provider-kairos) artifacts, which include k3s. Follow the [Installation](/docs/installation) documentation, and use the following configuration:

Reviewer: suggestion, would be super-cool if we can add later a default template to it or configs, like in: https://github.com/go-skynet/LocalAI#example-use-gpt4all-j-model . But that should be good as a configmap too

Author: @mudler not sure I understand what you mean here. Do we have templates for other bundles?

Reviewer: every model can have a config file/template prompt so it is much more accurate, but this is something we can add later!

```yaml
#cloud-config

hostname: localai-{{ trunc 4 .MachineID }}
users:
- name: kairos
  passwd: kairos
  ssh_authorized_keys:
    - github:mauromorales

k3s:
  enabled: true

bundles:
  - targets:
      - run://quay.io/kairos/community-bundles:localai_latest
      - 
localai:
  serviceType: LoadBalancer
```

There are a few things to note in this configuration file:

- In the `k3s` block, we set it as `enabled: true` because we want Kairos to run k3s for us.
- In the `bundles` block, we add a target pointing to the community bundle of LocalAI.
- We add a `localai` block, where we specify the `serviceType: LoadBalancer` so we can access LocalAI's API outside the cluster.

And that's it! You should now have LocalAI and K3s set up on your Kairos node.

> The first thing you want to check is which models you have available. By default, we download the `ggml-gpt4all-j.bin` model. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The first thing you want to check is which models you have available. By default, the LocalAI Kairos bundle downloads the `ggml-gpt4all-j.bin` model available from [gpt4all](https://github.com/nomic-ai/gpt4all). 
```

{{% alert title="Warning" %}}
Remember to change the IP with your own.
{{% /alert %}}

```shell
$ curl http://192.168.122.177:8080/v1/models
{"object":"list","data":[{"id":"ggml-gpt4all-j.bin","object":"model"}]}
```

> Witht the name of the model, we can now give it a go

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the name of the model, we can now give it a go with:
```
